h1. ripple

ripple is a Ruby client/wrapper for Riak, Basho's distributed database.

h2. Dependencies

ripple requires ActiveSupport >=2.3.  We highly recommend the "curb":http://curb.rubyforge.org/ gem for better HTTP client performance.

In development, you will also need these gems:

* jeweler
* rspec >= 1.2.9
* fakeweb >= 1.2
* curb >= 0.6
* rack >= 1.0
* yard >= 0.5.2

h2. Basic Example

<notextile><pre>require 'riak'

# Create a client interface
client = Riak::Client.new

# Retrieve a bucket
bucket = client.bucket("doc")  # a Riak::Bucket

# Get an object from the bucket
object = bucket.get("index.html")   # a Riak::RObject

# Change the object's data and save
object.data = "<html><body>Hello, world!</body></html>"
object.store

# Reload an object you already have
object.reload                  # Works if you have the key and vclock
object.reload :force => true   # Reloads whether you have the vclock or not

# Access more like a hash, client[bucket][key]
client['doc']['index.html']   # the Riak::RObject</pre></notextile>

h2. Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.  If you have already forked, use @git pull --rebase@ to reapply your changes on top of the mainline. Example:
  <pre><notextile>$ git checkout master; git pull --rebase seancribbs master</notextile></pre>
* Create a topic branch. If you've already created a topic branch, rebase it on top of changes from the mainline "master" branch. Examples:
** New branch:
  <pre>$ git checkout -b topic</pre>
** Existing branch:
  <pre>$ git rebase master</pre>
* Write an RSpec example, set of examples, and/or Cucumber story that demonstrate the necessity and validity of your changes. *Patches without specs will most often be ignored. Just do it, you'll thank me later.*
* Make your feature addition or bug fix. Make your specs and stories pass (green).
* Run the suite using multiruby or rvm to ensure cross-version compatibility.
* Commit, do not mess with Rakefile or VERSION.  If related to an existing issue in the "tracker":http://github.com/seancribbs/ripple/issues, include "Closes #X" in the commit message (where X is the issue number).
* Send me a pull request.

h2. License

All included code is subject to the Apache 2.0 license.  See LICENSE for details.

h2. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Sean Cribbs, Sonian Inc., and Basho Technologies Inc.
