h1. Ripple Release Notes

h2. 0.8.2 Patch/Minor Feature Release - 2010-10-22

Relese 0.8.2 includes significant additions to support features in Riak 0.13, including Riak Search and Luwak.

Simply @require 'riak/search'@ to add Search-related features to riak-client.

Full notes:

* Fixed bug in embedded associations where associated validators would be added every time the association was instantiated. [Adam Hunter]
* Update and loosen dependencies to Rails 3.0.1 and RSpec 2.
* Add support for file-existence check in Luwak. [John Axel Eriksson]
* Avoid clobbering an existing Boolean class or module.
* Add Luwak support.
* Add Search features. [Sean Cribbs, Rusty Klophaus]

h2. 0.8.1 Patch/Minor Feature Release - 2010-10-11

Release 0.8.1 includes several new features and bugfixes.

Full notes:

* Riak::TestServer makes it easier and faster to run automated tests that need to store data in Riak. It includes an in-memory Riak backend that quickly clears its contents at the end of a test/example. All included integration tests now use this.
* Headers are turned into strings before splitting into 8KB chunks. [Nicolas Fouché]
* Riak::RObject#prevent_stale_writes option allows conditional PUT semantics, matching on ETag. [Lee Jensen]
* Riak::RObject#raw_data gives access to the object data before deserialization. [Lee Jensen]
* Boolean properties on Ripple documents now allow a default value of false. [Duff O'Melia]
* Ripple documents now support accepts_nested_attributes_for. [Brian Kaney]

h2. 0.8.0 Feature Release - 2010-08-31

The 0.8.0 release is packed full of new features and bugfixes. Of particular note are:

* Rails 3 final support
* Session stores
* Linked associations
* Riak 0.12 support

Full notes:

* Ripple::Document classes can define their desired quorum parameters.
* ripple and riak-sessions use Rails 3 final. riak-client is still compatible with active_support >= 2.3.5.
* Keys are not loaded by default when requesting a Riak::Bucket. This matches the default for Riak 0.12.
* Ripple::Document now supports update_attributes and update_attribute.
* Inspection output has been improved for Ripple documents.
* Ripple::Document classes can now have associations that use links.
* Property-casting patches are now eagerly loaded.
* Certain responses from MapReduce can be converted into Riak::RObjects. [Misha Gorodnitzky]
* Key/bucket (un)escaping has been improved. [Nicolas Fouché]
* Riak::CacheStore sets and uses bucket-default quorums instead of per-request parameters.
* Riak::Bucket supports new quorum defaults.
* The default configuration file for Ripple is now config/ripple.yml. [Ashley Woodard]
* Added a Rails 3 model generator. [Ashley Woodard]
* Serializing RObject data via Marshal is now simpler, using "application/x-ruby-marshal" content-type.
* Large HTTP headers (Link tends to be one) are split into 8KB chunks for both backends.
* Added session stores for Rack and Rails 3.
* Document#find returns nil when all arguments are blank.
* CurbBackend now properly handles IO objects as the request body data.
* Ripple::Document classes that have the same bucket/key are equivalent using ==.
* Ripple::Document classes can use a property as the key, as long as it's a String.

h2. 0.7.1 Patch Release - 2010-06-08

This release has no new features but includes bug fixes and some internal refactoring of the Ripple::Document hierarchy.

* The Net::HTTP backend should handle streamed keys better (although
  still not perfectly).
* The Riak::MapReduce#timeout method now returns self, allowing
  chaining.
* The Ripple::Document and Ripple::EmbeddedDocument are less coupled
  from one another so numerous internal confusions about calling order
  are fixed.
* When using Riak::RObject#to_link, a blank tag is no longer allowed.

h2. 0.7.0 Feature Release - 2010-05-06

This release includes a number of new features.  The largest change is that the library is now split into two gems, 'riak-client' and 'ripple'.  'riak-client' supports ActiveSupport 2.3.5, 'ripple' only supports 3.0.0.beta3. 

A big kudos goes to Adam Hunter who contributed the majority of the new associations code.

In addition, these changes were made:

* Keys should stream properly now from Bucket#keys (the "stream" option was left off).
* Deletes can be issued directly from a Bucket without instantiating an RObject.
* Added a ActiveSupport 3.0-compatible Cache Store. [Shay Frendt]
* Added Bucket#exists?
* A provisionally complete implementation of embedded document associations. [Adam Hunter]
* Ripple::Document passes ActiveModel::Lint tests.
* Updated Rails 3 dependencies to beta3 and RSpec to 2.0.0.beta6
* Ripple::Document handles nil keys better. [John Lynch]


h2. 0.6.1 Patch Release - 2010-03-17

This is a minor release with fixes for a few issues:

* Riak::Link objects will now be unique when added to RObject#links
  Set. [John Lynch]
* Attributes on Ripple::Document classes are no longer clone, which had
  prevented non-scalar properties from being modified directly (e.g. Array).
* Buckets, keys, and walk specs are properly escaped in URLs
  (including slashes).
* Time-related properties properly convert to string formats in JSON that
  they will work in the context of MapReduce jobs.

h2. 0.6.0 Feature Release - 2010-03-05

This release contains enhancements and bugfixes in preparation for the
Riak 0.9 release.

* The CurbBackend now uses fibers to prevent curl-handle corruption when
  a block is given to streaming operations.
* The default prefix is now "/riak/" to match the latest version of Riak.
* The client configuration for Ripple is now used.
* Added Bucket#new and Bucket#get_or_new for easily creating new objects.
* Added Bucket#allow_mult and Bucket#n_value accessors for more easily setting
  bucket properties.
* Added timestamps! method for easily adding created_at/updated_at to documents.
  [Adam Hunter]
* The 'links' collection on RObject is now a Set instead of an Array.
* All literal messages are now stored in YAML localization files.
* Object siblings (caused by concurrent updates when allow_mult is true) can now
  be accessed directly.
* Map-reduce jobs now have timeouts (in parity with Riak).

h2. 0.5.1 Patch Release - 2010-02-22

This is a minor release with fixes for Ruby 1.9, bundler/edge Rails,
and a minor feature addition. Changes:

* Qualify namespaces for Ruby 1.9.
* Decoupled a few specs that gave the appearance of failure.
* Added "bucket" and "key" properties on Riak::Link objects. [John Lynch]
* Fully-qualify the @JSON@ constant, using @ActiveSupport::JSON@ instead.
* Adjusted gem specification to accommodate edge Rails. [Preston Marshall]

h2. 0.5 Initial Release - 2010-02-10

This is the first release of Ripple, which would not have been possible
without the generous support of Sonian and Basho Technologies.  Many thanks.
It includes:

* A robust basic client, @Riak@, with:
** multiple HTTP backends (curb, net/http)
** sensible client defaults (local, default port)
** bucket access and manipulation, including key-streaming
** object reading, storing, deleting and reloading
** automatic de-serialization of JSON, YAML, and Marshal (when given the right content type)
** streaming POST/PUT bodies (when given an IO)
** method-chained map-reduce job construction
* A document-style modeling library, Ripple, with:
** ActiveModel 3.0 compatibility
** Property/attribute definition with automatic type-casting
** Bucket selection based on class name, with single-bucket inheritance (configurable)
** Validations
** Dirty-tracking
** Simple finders - all documents, by key
** Reloading
